Query-frontend: Add experimental query blocker (#5609)
grafana/mimir: docs/sources/mimir/configure/configure-blocking-queries.md

---

> title: Configure queries blocking
> description: Use the queries blocking feature
> weight: 100

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Configure queries to block
description: Control what queries are sent to your Mimir installation.
weight: 100
```

---

> # Configure queries blocking

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Configure queries to block
```

> In certain situations, you may not be able to control the queries being sent to your Mimir installation. These queries
> may be intentionally or unintentionally expensive to run, and they may affect the overall stability or cost of running
> your service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In certain situations, you might want to control what queries are being sent to your Mimir installation. These queries
might be intentionally or unintentionally expensive to run, and they might affect the overall stability or cost of running
your service.
```
Why would a user want a query to be intentionally expensive?

> You can block queries using [per-tenant overrides]({{< relref "./about-runtime-configuration" >}}), like so:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can block queries using [per-tenant overrides]({{< relref "./about-runtime-configuration" >}}):
```

```yaml
overrides:
  "tenant-id":
    blocked_queries:
      # block this query exactly
      - pattern: 'sum(rate(node_cpu_seconds_total{env="prod"}[1m]))'

      # block any query matching this regex pattern
      - pattern: '.*env="prod".*'
        regex: true
```

> NOTE: To set up runtime overrides, refer to [runtime configuration]({{< relref "./about-runtime-configuration" >}}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To set up runtime overrides, refer to [runtime configuration]({{< relref "./about-runtime-configuration" >}}).
```

> **Note:** the order of patterns is preserved, so the first matching pattern will be used

Reviewer: Notes follow the syntax at https://grafana.com/docs/writers-toolkit/write/shortcodes/#example.

> **Note:** the order of patterns is preserved, so the first matching pattern will be used

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{% admonition type="note" %}}
The order of patterns is preserved, so the first matching pattern will be used.
{{% /admonition %}}
```

Reviewer: Notes follow the syntax at https://grafana.com/docs/writers-toolkit/write/shortcodes/#example.

> ## Observing blocked queries

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Observe blocked queries
```
